# CYB333 Security Automation Final Project
<p>This project was inspired by Thomas McNeela's Python for Automating Security [Video] video course (McNella, 2020). The content consists of the following seven sections:</p>
<ul>
<li>Exploit Script Reading, Modification, and Testing</li>
<li>Using a Packet Capture File to Analyze</li>
<li>Open-Source Intelligence Collection</li>
<li>Examining a Log File</li>
<li>Create a Netcat Python replacement</li>
<li>Obtaining Network Packets from the Wire</li>
<li>Create a complete penetration testing tool using the first six sections listed above</li></ul>
<p><strong>Section 1</strong> provides an overview of the virtual environment needed to build all of the Python functions and methods for each section. It also covers how to locate, comprehend, modify, and test an exploit script written in Python. The latter rewrites the entire exploit in Python for greater portability, demonstrating the power and simplicity of using Python for security testing automation.</p>
<p><strong>Section 2</strong> begins with an explanation of packet capture files, followed by the creation of Python code to automatically analyze a packet capture file and look for unusual network activity.</p>
<p><strong>Section 3</strong> then delves into open source intelligence before employing Python to automate the collection of specific types of OS sent. As a result, similar to the process outlined in <strong>Section 2</strong>, <strong>Section 4</strong> concludes with a useful penetration test.</p>
<p><strong>Section 4</strong> examines a server log file for unusual activity before writing Python code to automate the analysis process.</p>
<p><strong>Section 5</strong> begins with a discussion of netcat theory, which is a useful tool in penetration testing. Nonetheless, due to the potential for abuse, system administrators frequently prevent it from running on machines. This section, on the other hand, shows how to write a Python replacement for Netcat that can then be used on any system that supports Python.</p>
<p><strong>Section 6</strong> demonstrates how to capture network packets off the wire, which is commonly used in penetration tests. It is a very useful process to perform live packet captures to analyze what is going on with the network, allowing you to see how to capture plaintext credentials from network traffic and eventually write an offensive tool for cache poisoning.</p>
<p><strong>Section 7</strong> concludes by bringing everything learned in the previous sections and practical approaches together by writing comprehensive penetration testing. The code combines several techniques into a single useful tool.</p>
<h2>Project Plan</h2>
<p><strong>Project Objectives:</strong> To be motivated to write programs for whatever is required to automate security. Much has been written, but much has yet to be written. Learning to write code is one of the most effective ways to stimulate thought and apply it to everyday scenarios that a threat actor might use to infiltrate a company's systems. Getting ahead of the threat actor can be accomplished by embracing good coding skills.</p>
<p><strong>Problem:</strong> Threat actors are constantly attempting to gain access and entry in order to steal personal information and make money. Using Python to automate security is a low-cost way to stay ahead of the threat actor. Building comprehensive penetration tools that address all six demonstrated skills is an excellent starting point for protecting against threat actors.</p>
<p><strong>Expected Outcomes and Deliverables:</strong> Using the tools developed in each of the seven principles creates the necessary shield to detect and block threat actors in business systems and networks. The penetration testing tools can help developers understand how to develop their application code to thwart the attempts of threat actors by creating a privacy-by-design environment.Expected Outcomes and Deliverables: Using the tools developed in each of the seven principles creates the necessary shield to detect and block threat actors in business systems and networks. The penetration testing tools can help developers understand how to develop their application code to thwart the attempts of threat actors by creating a privacy-by-design environment.</p>
